So let's talk about something
that's absolutely fundamental to making the digital world
Work for everybody. Accessible
Names. And don't worry,
this isn't gonna get all
technical and code heavy.
It's really about one simple idea.
Building a bridge, A bridge that connects every single user
to the apps and websites we use every day.
Let's dig in. Okay, take a look at this.
It's a bell icon.
You've probably clicked on a button
just like it a thousand times.
We look at it and we just know it means
notifications, right?
But what if you couldn't see it?
What would a screen reader, the tool,
someone who's blind uses
to browse the web actually say out loud,
Well, in way too many cases, this is what they hear.
Button. That's it. Just button.
No context, no hint of what it does.
Imagine a page with 10 different icons
and all you hear is button, button, button.
It's completely unusable.
You see a helpful bell icon, they hear a useless mystery.
And that really gets to the heart of it.
When we forget to give an element a proper name,
we're not just creating some small inconvenience,
we're creating a dead end.
We're building a broken bridge,
and we're leaving people stranded.
Totally unable to use our stuff.
Alright, so we've seen the problem, the broken bridge.
Now let's talk about How to fix it.
And that starts with understanding the tool for the job.
So what exactly is an accessible name?
Anyway, you know, the official definition from the people
who set web standards is actually
beautiful in its simplicity. It's just a short
Little piece of text, that's all. But it has
Two super critical jobs to do.
Job number one, tell the user what it does.
What's its purpose? A button
that says submit tells me it's gonna send my form.
Easy job Number two,
distinguish it from other similar things on the page.
If you've got two submit buttons, one
that says submit order, and another that says,
submit feedback tells me exactly which one I'm about to hit.
Purpose and distinction, that's the whole game.
Okay, so how do we actually put this into practice?
Let's get practical with rule number one.
And this is probably the most important of all, figuring out
what even needs a name
In the first place.
For pretty much any element you see on a page
that isn't just a block of text, you have
to ask yourself one simple question,
is this thing functional or is it just for
Decoration?
So if an element does something, if it's a button, a link,
an image that's conveying important info, it's functional.
And if it's functional, you
absolutely have to give it a name.
But if it's just there to look pretty,
like a swirly background image
or a simple dividing line, it's decorative.
And in that case, you should explicitly hide it.
And that's just as important
because it cuts down on the digital clutter
and lets the user focus on what actually matters.
Now for rule number two and this one,
This one tackles The single
Most common mistake I see
People make when writing these names.
And the rule is so simple.
Describe what the element does, not what it looks like.
Your user needs to know its function, not its fashion.
This is a classic example.
You see an arrow icon, a well-meaning person might think,
okay, I'll describe what I see.
Blue arrow pointing, right?
But that's totally useless information.
A user doesn't care if it's blue or purple.
They need to know what happens when they click it.
And what does it do? It takes them to the next page.
So the perfect name is just one word.
Next function, not form.
Okay? Our final rule is all about crafting names
that are truly helpful.
I want you to think of yourself as a tour guide.
You're leading your user through your digital space,
and you want to be as clear and efficient as possible.
A good tour guide does three things really well.
They're concise. They get to the point.
They point out the most important stuff first,
and they make sure you never get lost in a sea
of identical looking doors.
First, be concise.
A screen reader is already going
to announce the elements role.
So if you name a button, click this
button to submit your form.
The user is going to hear, click this button
to submit your form button.
It's redundant, it's slow. Just submit is perfect.
They'll hear a submit button, clean, fast,
and way more effective.
Now this brings Us to one
of the most frustrating accessibility problems on the web.
Imagine a screen reader user trying to quickly navigate.
They can pull up a list of all the buttons on a page,
and this is what they hear.
Watch now button, watch, now, button watch, now button.
Ugh. It's a complete dead end.
They're just left thinking which one is which.
They're forced to guess.
They have to click the first one, wait for it to load,
figure out what it is.
Go back and try the next one. They're totally stuck.
This is what that broken bridge feels like.
And here's the beautiful, elegant solution.
The visual design stays exactly the same. Clean and simple.
Everyone just sees watch now.
But behind the scenes in the code,
we give each one a unique, expanded, accessible name
so the screen reader can announce the full story.
Watch now opening keynote watch.
Now, inspiration, keynote, problem solved.
Now the user knows exactly where each button goes.
So after seeing the problem
and walking through the rules for how to fix it,
it really all comes down to this.
You are the architect.
Accessible names are the individual planks that you use
to build that bridge between people and technology.
And whether you're a designer, a developer, a writer,
you're the one building it.
You decide if that bridge is going to be sturdy
and reliable, or if it's going to be full of holes.
So I'll just leave you with this one question.
Think about the websites, the apps,
the documents that you work on.
What's one broken bridge, one missing name,
one unhelpful icon that you can go back
and fix right now today.